---
title: "What I learned from working in E-commerce"
date: 2021-08-18
categories: 
  - "business"
tags: 
  - "business"
draft: true
---

Whether you’re an [Etsy](http://www.etsy.com) shop owner, or you have your own [Shopify](https://www.blogger.com/blog/post/edit/8025534002846347833/3502579974794492206#) store, the work that goes into building your audience and engaging your customers are quite similar. Here are a few things that I learned from having my own e-commerce shop.

## 1\. **You need to build your own email list.** 

Sorry to sound like a broken record, but this is one of the most valuable lessons I’ve learned! You can build as big of a social media presence as you’d like, but the one thing that has brought me the most ROI was having my own email list. [MailChimp](https://www.blogger.com/blog/post/edit/8025534002846347833/3502579974794492206#) makes it easy to setup your email marketing campaigns, and when you link it up to your [Shopify](https://www.blogger.com/blog/post/edit/8025534002846347833/3502579974794492206#) and Google Analytics, you’ll get to see exactly how much your marking efforts are contributing to your ROI.

## 2\. **Building a community**

This is harder to establish for some markets, but by joining Facebook Groups and starting your own “exclusive” Facebook group, you get to understand and have a closer connection with your “tribe”.

## 3\. **Create limited time offers**

People don’t like missing out, so by having limited time packages or bundles, you’ll have an excuse to amp up your marketing posts. Best of all you’ll get to build some excitement in your community!

## 4\. **Influencer marketing**

You can build your own networks, or you can build it faster when you work together with influencers. Influencers are always ready to help. Make sure you vet them carefully and that their followings are real and not only there for the freebies!

## 5\. **Everybody loves a contest**

If you want to grow your own traffic, you can always hold “regram” or “facebook share” contests. This will give you a boost in exposure and perhaps new fans for your business.

## 6\. **Everybody wants to be “famous”**

Instagram is great for regram-ing your fan’s pics. Also, encourage them to post your products and tag you so that you can reshare it and maybe add an incentive like a discount if they end up getting picked to be featured!

## 7\. **Always check your analytics**

What you might think is popular might not always be the case. You’ll be surprised how many gold nuggets I’ve found from installing a heat map like one from SumoMe or Crazy Egg. Also, make sure you check Search Terms to see your next new trend and adjust your products to match those. And to make sure your marketing efforts are put towards the right thing, check your Traffic Sources so that you know you’re spending time marketing on the right source.

## 8\. **Collaboration over competition**

As much as you might want to beat out your competition, it’s better to pair up with other similar shops so that everybody gets more exposure. These are perfect because it will ensure that you’ll get qualified customers interested in similar things that haven’t heard of you before.
