---
title: "5 tips on making a habit stick"
draft: true
---

Habits are a key part of successful living, but they can be difficult to form and maintain. In this article, we'll give you five tips on how to make a habit stick so that you can achieve your goals and live a healthy lifestyle!

## Understand the Reason You’re Doing It

To make a habit stick, you first need to understand why you’re doing it. For example, if you want to start exercising, you have to understand why exercise is good for your health. The same goes for any other habit you want to develop.

Once you understand the reason behind your chosen behavior, you can start to set goals and plan rewards for yourself. This will help keep you motivated and on track.

If you find that a habit is difficult to stick to, try changing one small aspect of the behavior. For example, instead of trying to eat healthy all the time, try making a commitment to eating healthier one day a week. This way, it will be easier for you to stick to the goal and maintain your progress over time.

## Find an Accountability Partner

One of the best ways to make a habit stick is to find an accountability partner. This person will help you stay on track by holding you accountable for your progress.

There are a few things to keep in mind when choosing an accountability partner. First, make sure they are someone you trust and feel comfortable working with. Second, make sure they have good communication skills. Without good communication, the accountability process will be difficult and frustrating. Finally, make sure they are available whenever you need them, no matter what.

Finding an accountability partner is one of the most important steps in making a habit stick. It can help you reach your goal faster and easier than ever before!

## Create a Mechanism to Fail

One of the biggest challenges in making a habit stick is creating a mechanism to fail. If we make it too easy to break our new habit, we are more likely to revert back to our old habits.

One way to create a mechanism to fail is by setting small goals for ourselves. For example, if we want to start exercising every day, we might set a goal of walking for 30 minutes each day. This way, even if we don't meet our full goal each day, we have still made progress.

Another helpful strategy is to keep track of our progress. We can write down what we have accomplished each day, and celebrate our small wins. This makes it more likely that we will continue working towards our larger goals.

## Set Yourself Up for Success

Making a habit stick can be difficult, but there are a few tips that can help make it easier.

The first step is to set yourself up for success. Make sure that the habit you're trying to develop is something that you're interested in and enjoyable. This will make it easier to keep up the habit, since you'll be more likely to stick with it.

Another tip is to find a ritual or routine that you can follow every day. This will help you get into the habit of doing the behavior and make it easier to keep up the habit over time. Finally, be patient. It may take some time for your new habit to become established, but with patience and effort, it will eventually become a reality.

## Conclusion

Sticking to a new habit can be hard, but it’s worth it in the end. Here are five tips that can help make sticking to a new habit easier: 1. Set realistic goals – Make sure you aren’t setting yourself up for failure by setting too high of a goal or expecting too much from yourself right off the bat. A good starting point is to set small, achievable goals that will get you closer to your ultimate goal. 2. Break your habit into smaller tasks – If breaking your habit feels overwhelming, try breaking it down into more manageable tasks. This way, you won’t feel as overwhelmed and will be more likely to stick with the plan. 3. Make a “cheat day” – One of the best ways to ensure you don’t give up on your new habit is to have a cheat day where you allow yourself some wiggle room (but still follow the other rules). This way, if you do slip up once in awhile, it won’t ruin everything overall. 4. Keep track of your progress – Keeping track of your progress is key in making sure that you stay on track and don’t give up on your new habit. This can be done in a variety of ways, from writing down what you have accomplished each day to using a tracking app. 5. Find an accountability partner – One of the best ways to make a habit stick is to find someone who will help you stay on track and hold you accountable. There are a few things to keep in mind when choosing an accountability partner, such as making sure they are someone you trust and feel comfortable working with, having good communication skills, and being available whenever you need them.
