---
title: "9 Tips for staying organized as a Stay-at-Home Mom"
draft: true
---

Juggling a home and a career while raising children can be a daunting task. But with some careful planning and organization, you can stay on top of things and still enjoy your time with your family. In this article, we provide 10 tips to help you stay organized as a stay-at-home mom.

## Have a set routine for yourself

One of the benefits of being a stay-at-home mom is that you have complete control over your schedule. However, this doesn't mean that you can't structure your day in a way that keeps you organized.

One way to stay on track is to have a set routine for yourself. This routine should include things like when you wake up, how long you spend in bed, when you eat breakfast, and when you get up. Putting these times into a schedule will help to keep your day more organized and prevent you from getting sidetracked.

Another way to stay on track is to create a to-do list for each day. This list should include everything from grocery shopping to taking the dog for a walk. Once you have your list, make sure to check it off as you complete it. This will help to keep your day moving forward and avoid distractions.

Finally, try not to multitask too much during the day. When you're trying to stay on track, it's important to focus on one task at a time. This way, you'll be less likely to get sidetracked and miss important deadlines.

## Make sure you have enough variety in your day

As a stay-at-home mother, it can be tough to keep on track with your day if you don't have enough variety. One way to combat this is to make sure you have at least three different activities in your day. This will help to keep you from getting too bored and will give you something to look forward to.

Another way to keep on track is to make a schedule for yourself and stick to it as closely as possible. This will help you organize your day and know exactly what is going on. If you are able to stick to a schedule, it will also help you save time in the long run.

Finally, try not to let other obligations take over your time. If something comes up that you can't refuse, try to fit it in around your schedule as best as possible. This will help you stay on top of your responsibilities and maintain a healthy balance in your life.

## Set realistic milestones for yourself

As a stay-at-home mom, it can be difficult to stay on track. You may feel like you are never productive enough, or that you don't have enough time.

1\. Set realistic milestones for yourself. Make sure that you are setting goals that are achievable and will help you see progress. If you are feeling frustrated with your progress, take a step back and reassess your goals.

2\. Get organized. One of the best ways to stay on track is to get organized. This doesn't mean that you need to get rid of all of your clutter, but it does mean that you need to find a system for organizing your time and belongings. Putting everything in its rightful place will help you to better focus on what needs to be done.

3\. Find a support system.sometimes it is helpful to have a support system when trying to stay on track as a stay-at-home mom. Talking to other moms in the same situation can help make the process easier.

## Make a schedule and stick to it

One of the biggest challenges for stay-at-home moms is staying on track. It can be hard to set aside time each day to do things that are important to us, like spending time with our children.

One way to overcome this difficulty is to make a schedule and stick to it. This will help us get organized and get our priorities in order. We can also try to find some sort of routine or structure for our day. This will make it easier for us to focus on what we need to do and minimize the chaos that often accompanies being a stay-at-home mom.

## Accept help from family and friends

As a stay-at-home mom, it can be hard to stay on top of all of your tasks. But there are ways to make it easier. One way is to accept help from family and friends. They can help you with things like grocery shopping and cleaning.

Another way to stay on top of your tasks is to set up systems. This means creating specific routines for each task that you need to do. For example, you could have a routine for taking the kids to school, packing their lunch, and getting them ready for bed. Having a system will help you stick to the same schedule every day, which will make it easier to stay on track.

## Use technology to your advantage

As a stay-at-home mom, one of your biggest challenges is staying on top of your schedule. Technology can be your ally in this battle.

One way to stay organized is to use technology to keep track of your schedule. You can use a calendar, a to-do list, or an online calendar. You can also use apps like Google Calendar and Microsoft Outlook to keep track of meetings and appointments.

You can also use technology to help you keep track of your expenses. You can use a budgeting app to track your spending and see how much money you have left each month. You can also use online banking to keep track of your finances. This way, you will always know where your money is going.

Staying on top of your schedule as a stay-at-home mom is not easy, but using technology can help you get there.

## Have a system for tracking expenses

One of the biggest challenges that stay-at-home mothers face is keeping track of their expenses. This can be difficult, especially if you don't have a system for tracking your expenses.

One way to overcome this challenge is to have a system for tracking your expenses. You can use a budgeting or tracking app, or you can simply keep a notebook with you and write down all of your purchases.

Whatever method you choose, make sure that you keep track of how much money you are spending each month. This will help you to stay on budget and avoid overspending.

## Use a planner to keep track of your goals

One of the biggest challenges that stay-at-home moms face is staying on track. Sometimes it can be hard to focus when you're not working, and you can easily lose sight of your goals.

One way to help stay on track is to use a planner. This will help you keep track of your commitments and goals. You can also use a planner to track your progress towards your goals. This will help you stay motivated and focused on your goals.

Another way to stay on track is to set small goals each day. This will help you stay focused and motivated, and it won't feel as daunting when you reach your larger goals.

## Take breaks often and reward yourself

When you're working at home, it's easy to feel like you're always on duty. But taking breaks is key to staying on track and feeling productive.

First, make sure you take regular breaks. Even 10 minutes can help you recharge your batteries and relax your mind. If you work from home, try to take your breaks outside of the office so you can get some fresh air and sunlight.

Second, reward yourself for completing a task. Whether that's taking a long shower or eating a snack you've been craving, rewarding yourself will help keep you motivated. It's also important to remember that self-compassion is key – telling yourself "you're doing great" even when things are tough will help boost your confidence.

## Conclusion

As a stay-at-home mom, it can be easy to lose track of time and feel like you’re constantly battling the housework war. But by following these 10 tips, you can stay on top of your to-dos and still find time for yourself. From setting boundaries with your spouse so that both of you have space to relax, to creating systems for organizing your home, these tips will help make being a stay-at-home mom easier and more manageable. Thanks for reading!
